README.md, before:

# Awesome PaaS

A curated list of awesome Platform as a Service resources.


## Services and Solutions

* [AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/): AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an easy-to-use service 
  for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, 
  and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, Nginx, Passenger, and IIS.
  
* [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/): Use Azure App Service to create 
  powerful cloud apps for web and mobile clients running on any platform or device faster than ever before.

* [Cloud Foundry (Open Source)](https://www.cloudfoundry.org): an open source cloud application platform backed by 
  Cisco, Google, IBM, Microsoft, Pivotal, SAP, SUSE and more.
  
* [Dokku](http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/): The smallest PaaS implementation you've ever seen.

* [Flynn](https://github.com/flynn/flynn): A next generation open source platform as a service. Flynn is designed to run
  anything that can run on Linux, not just stateless web apps. Flynn comes with highly available database appliances, 
  including PostgreSQL, MySQL, and MongoDB.
  
* [Google App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/): Google App Engine lets developers build scalable web and 
  mobile backends in any language on Google's infrastructure.
  
* [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com): Heroku is a cloud platform based on a managed container system, with integrated 
  data services and a powerful ecosystem, for deploying and running modern apps.

* [OID](https://www.okd.io): The Community Distribution of Kubernetes that powers Red Hat OpenShift. Built around a 
  core of OCI container packaging and Kubernetes container cluster management, OKD is also augmented by application 
  lifecycle management functionality and DevOps tooling. OKD provides a complete open source container application 
  platform. OKD is also referred to as Origin in github and in the documentation.

* [Pivotal Cloud Foundry](https://pivotal.io/platform): Continuously deliver any app to every major private and public 
  cloud with a single platform.
  
* [Red Hat OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com): The Kubernetes platform for big ideas. Focus on writing code and let 
  OpenShift build, run, and scale your apps in the cloud. Red Hat OpenShift helps teams deliver faster with containers 
  and Kubernetes.

* [SAP Cloud Platform](https://cloudplatform.sap.com/index.html): The business platform to innovate, connect and extend
  your business. Based on Cloud Foundry.
 
* [T-Systems AppAgile PaaS](https://cloud.telekom.de/en/infrastructure/appagile-paas-big-data/paas): The modular 
  Platform-as-a-Service offering (PaaS) combines technical development platforms with quickly available business 
  applications from the cloud and can be used as a managed service with no significant development outlay. A 
  managed service based on Red Hat OpenShift.


## Case Studies and Success Stories

* [Heroku Customers](https://www.heroku.com/customers)

* [Microsoft Azure App Service Case Studies](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/case-studies/?service=app-service)

* [OpenShift Success Stories](https://www.openshift.com/learn/success-stories/)

* [Pivotal Case Studies](https://content.pivotal.io/case-studies)

* [Pivotal Customers](https://pivotal.io/customers)

* [SAP Cloud Platform Success Stories](https://cloudplatform.sap.com/content/skywalker/website/en_us/success.html)


## Quick Starts 
  
* [Getting started with Minishift](https://docs.okd.io/latest/minishift/getting-started/index.html): A documentation 
  about how to prepare a virtualization environment on macOS, Linux or Windows, set up Minishift, and start using it. 
  Minishift is a tool that helps you run OKD locally by launching a single-node OKD cluster inside a virtual machine. 
  With Minishift you can try out OKD or develop with it, day-to-day, on your local machine.

* [Installing OKD 3.10 on a Single Host](https://blog.openshift.com/installing-okd-3-10-on-a-single-host/): A 22 minute
  Video that shows how to install OKD 3.10 from start to finish using the Ansible playbooks that are provided as the
  official way to install a cluster. This is more involved than using the OKD Docker image or Minishift but closer to 
  installing a production OKD cluster.
  
* [Adding an SSL certificate to OKD](https://youtu.be/S7HoJ09oYn0): A companion video to 
  'Installing OKD 3.10 on a single host' to add a Let's encrypt certificate to the console.
  
* [Free Wildcard Certificates and OpenShift](https://blog.openshift.com/lets-encrypt-acme-v2-api/): A blog post 
  explaining how to add a Let's encrypt wildcard certificate to an existing OKD or OpenShift installation for 
  both the console and the deployed apps.

* [OKD Getting started as a developer: Web console walkthrough](https://docs.okd.io/latest/getting_started/developers_console.html):
  This getting started experience walks you through the simplest way to get a sample project up and running on OKD
  using the web console. 

* [OKD Getting started as a developer: Command-line walkthrough](https://docs.okd.io/latest/getting_started/developers_cli.html):
  This getting started experience walks you through the simplest way to get a sample project up and running on OKD
  using the command-line. 


## Courses and Trainings

TBD


## Books

* [Duncann Winn: Cloud Foundry: The Definitive Guide. O'Reilly, 2017](https://www.amazon.de/Cloud-Foundry-Definitive-Guide-Develop/dp/1491932430/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653700&sr=8-1&keywords=cloud+foundry)

* [Graham Dumpleton: Deploying to OpenShift: A guide for busy developers, O'Reilly, 2018](https://www.amazon.de/Cloud-Foundry-Definitive-Guide-Develop/dp/1491932430/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653700&sr=8-1&keywords=cloud+foundry)

* [Jamie Duncan, John Osborne: OpenShift in Action. Manning, 2018](https://www.amazon.de/OpenShift-Action-Jamie-Duncan/dp/1617294837/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653860&sr=8-1&keywords=openshift)

* [Denis Zuev, Artemii Kropachev: Learn OpenShift: Deploy, build, manage, and migrate applications with OpenShift Origin 3.9. Packt, 2018](https://www.amazon.de/Learn-OpenShift-migrate-applications-English-ebook/dp/B07FDHYV3W/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653926&sr=8-4&keywords=openshift)

* [SAP Cloud Platform: Tools and Services. SAP Press, 2019](https://www.amazon.de/SAP-Cloud-Platform-Services-englisch/dp/1493216961/ref=sr_1_fkmr2_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1549651734&sr=8-2-fkmr2&keywords=platform+asa+service)
  Yet to be published.


## Analyst Reports

* [Forrester: The total economic impact of Microsoft PaaS](https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/0c9d178c-b7e7-4b78-bb46-c7bee92677a8/WhitePaper_The_Total_Economic_Impact_Of_Microsoft_Azure_PaaS_Forrester.pdf):
  A Microsoft commissioned study from 2016 to examine the potential return on investment (ROI) enterprises may 
  realize by shifting their application development and deployment to Azure platform-as-a-service (PaaS).
  
* [Forrester: The total economic impact of Pivotal Cloud Foundry](https://content.pivotal.io/analyst-reports/the-total-economic-impact-of-pivotal-cloud-foundry):
  Cost savings and business benefits enabled by Pivotal Cloud Foundry. A Pivotal commissioned study from 2017.

* [Gartner: Cloud strategy leadership](http://www.gartner.com/imagesrv/books/cloud/cloud_strategy_leadership.pdf): Gartner
  insights on how and why leaders must implement cloud computing. 

* [Gartner: The key trends in PaaS, 2018](https://www.gartner.com/doc/3852281/key-trends-paas-)
  
* [IDC: PaaS: Emerging trends and strategies](https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=IDC_P37233)


## News and Blog Posts (latest first)

* [Reza Shafii: Kubernetes guideposts for 2019. OpenShift Blog, Jan 2019](https://blog.openshift.com/kubernetes-guideposts-for-2019/)
  Reza redicts automated operations will be the next step, federation V2 will make mulit-cloud easier, serverless comes
  to Kubernetes and 2019 will be the year of hybrid serverles, k8s will enable hybrid operations for containers and
  virtual machines and it'll be on bare metal, open source developer communities target k8s by default, we will see
  workloads start moving back to the datacenter.

* [Dan Meyer: Cloud Foundry Adopts a Pair of Kubernetes-Based Projects. SDXCentral, Oct. 2018,](https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/cloud-foundry-adopts-a-pair-of-kubernetes-based-projects/2018/10/):
  Cloud Foundry Container Runtime (CFCR), which allows for deploying containers using Bosh and Kubernetes.
  Eirini, which allows operators and vendors to use Kubernetes as the underlying container scheduler for the Cloud 
  Foundry Application Runtime. CF Containerization, which packages Bosh into containers that are deployed into 
  Kubernetes. This allows operators to deploy the Cloud Foundry Application Runtime into existing clusters.
  CFCR was the beachhead for Cloud Foundry into the Kubernetes ecosystem. Eirini and CF Containerization build on 
  that approach.
  
* [Jeff Hobbs: Kubernetes and Cloud Foundry: Better together. The New Stack. Apr. 2018](https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-and-cloud-foundry-better-together/)
  
* [Peter Eriksson: The key trends in PaaS 2018. Feb. 2018](https://petereriksson.ch/the-key-trends-in-paas-2018/)
  
* [Kurt Marko: Building the convincing PaaS business case. Diginomica, Jan 2018](https://diginomica.com/paas-business-case-higher-level-cloud-services-delivers-roi-competitive-advantage/)


## Misc

* [Richard Watson: I don't always evaluate PaaS with a list of criteria, but when I do, it's this list](https://blogs.gartner.com/richard-watson/dont-always-evaluate-paas-list-criteria-list/):
  A meme themed article on Gartner Blog Nework from 2015.

* [Cloud Foundry Container Runtime (CFCR)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/kubo-release): An open-source 
  project that provides a solution for deploying and managing Kubernetes clusters using BOSH on AWS, GCP, OpenStack 
  and vSphere. Formerly named Kubo.
  
* [Cloud Foundry Stratos](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/stratos): A Web-based Console UI for Cloud Foundry.

* [Secrets of successful Cloud Foundry Users](https://content.pivotal.io/infographics/secrets-of-successful-cloud-foundry-users): An infographic.

Commit message:

add OpenShift Learning Portal, add info that OKD install video works for 3.11, as well and fix some typos

README.md, after:

# Awesome PaaS

A curated list of awesome Platform as a Service resources.


## Services and Solutions

* [AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/): AWS Elastic Beanstalk is an easy-to-use service 
  for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, 
  and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, Nginx, Passenger, and IIS.
  
* [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/): Use Azure App Service to create 
  powerful cloud apps for web and mobile clients running on any platform or device faster than ever before.

* [Cloud Foundry (Open Source)](https://www.cloudfoundry.org): an open source cloud application platform backed by 
  Cisco, Google, IBM, Microsoft, Pivotal, SAP, SUSE and more.
  
* [Dokku](http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/): The smallest PaaS implementation you've ever seen.

* [Flynn](https://github.com/flynn/flynn): A next generation open source platform as a service. Flynn is designed to run
  anything that can run on Linux, not just stateless web apps. Flynn comes with highly available database appliances, 
  including PostgreSQL, MySQL, and MongoDB.
  
* [Google App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/): Google App Engine lets developers build scalable web and 
  mobile backends in any language on Google's infrastructure.
  
* [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com): Heroku is a cloud platform based on a managed container system, with integrated 
  data services and a powerful ecosystem, for deploying and running modern apps.

* [OKD aka OpenShift Origin](https://www.okd.io): The Community Distribution of Kubernetes that powers Red Hat OpenShift. 
  Built around a core of OCI container packaging and Kubernetes container cluster management, OKD is also augmented by 
  application lifecycle management functionality and DevOps tooling. OKD provides a complete open source container 
  application platform. OKD is also referred to as Origin in github and in the documentation.

* [Pivotal Cloud Foundry](https://pivotal.io/platform): Continuously deliver any app to every major private and public 
  cloud with a single platform.
  
* [Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform](https://www.openshift.com): The Kubernetes platform for big ideas. Focus on 
  writing code and let OpenShift build, run, and scale your apps in the cloud. Red Hat OpenShift helps teams deliver 
  faster with containers and Kubernetes.

* [SAP Cloud Platform](https://cloudplatform.sap.com/index.html): The business platform to innovate, connect and extend
  your business. Based on Cloud Foundry.
 
* [T-Systems AppAgile PaaS](https://cloud.telekom.de/en/infrastructure/appagile-paas-big-data/paas): The modular 
  Platform-as-a-Service offering (PaaS) combines technical development platforms with quickly available business 
  applications from the cloud and can be used as a managed service with no significant development outlay.


## Case Studies and Success Stories

* [Heroku Customers](https://www.heroku.com/customers)

* [Microsoft Azure App Service Case Studies](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/case-studies/?service=app-service)

* [OpenShift Success Stories](https://www.openshift.com/learn/success-stories/)

* [Pivotal Case Studies](https://content.pivotal.io/case-studies)

* [Pivotal Customers](https://pivotal.io/customers)

* [SAP Cloud Platform Success Stories](https://cloudplatform.sap.com/content/skywalker/website/en_us/success.html)


## Quick Starts 
  
* [Getting started with Minishift](https://docs.okd.io/latest/minishift/getting-started/index.html): A documentation 
  about how to prepare a virtualization environment on macOS, Linux or Windows, set up Minishift, and start using it. 
  Minishift is a tool that helps you run OKD locally by launching a single-node OKD cluster inside a virtual machine. 
  With Minishift you can try out OKD or develop with it, day-to-day, on your local machine.

* [Installing OKD 3.10 on a Single Host](https://blog.openshift.com/installing-okd-3-10-on-a-single-host/): A 
  video that shows how to install OKD from start to finish using the Ansible playbooks that are provided as the
  official way to install a cluster. This is more involved than using the OKD Docker image or Minishift but better
  suited to a system that is meant to be always running. Works with OKD 3.11, too.
  
* [Adding an SSL certificate to OKD](https://youtu.be/S7HoJ09oYn0): A companion video to 
  'Installing OKD 3.10 on a single host' to add a Let's encrypt certificate to the console.
  
* [Free Wildcard Certificates and OpenShift](https://blog.openshift.com/lets-encrypt-acme-v2-api/): A blog post 
  explaining how to add a Let's encrypt wildcard certificate to an existing OKD or OpenShift installation for 
  both the console and the deployed apps.

* [OKD Getting started as a developer: Web console walkthrough](https://docs.okd.io/latest/getting_started/developers_console.html):
  This getting started experience walks you through the simplest way to get a sample project up and running on OKD
  using the web console. 

* [OKD Getting started as a developer: Command-line walkthrough](https://docs.okd.io/latest/getting_started/developers_cli.html):
  This getting started experience walks you through the simplest way to get a sample project up and running on OKD
  using the command-line. 


## Courses and Trainings

* [OpenShift Interactive Learning Portal](https://learn.openshift.com): Interactive learning scenarios with pre-configured
  OpenShift instances. Use it to experiment with and learn to use OpenShift.


## Books

* [Duncann Winn: Cloud Foundry: The Definitive Guide. O'Reilly, 2017](https://www.amazon.de/Cloud-Foundry-Definitive-Guide-Develop/dp/1491932430/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653700&sr=8-1&keywords=cloud+foundry)

* [Graham Dumpleton: Deploying to OpenShift: A guide for busy developers, O'Reilly, 2018](https://www.amazon.de/Cloud-Foundry-Definitive-Guide-Develop/dp/1491932430/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653700&sr=8-1&keywords=cloud+foundry)

* [Jamie Duncan, John Osborne: OpenShift in Action. Manning, 2018](https://www.amazon.de/OpenShift-Action-Jamie-Duncan/dp/1617294837/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653860&sr=8-1&keywords=openshift)

* [Denis Zuev, Artemii Kropachev: Learn OpenShift: Deploy, build, manage, and migrate applications with OpenShift Origin 3.9. Packt, 2018](https://www.amazon.de/Learn-OpenShift-migrate-applications-English-ebook/dp/B07FDHYV3W/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&qid=1549653926&sr=8-4&keywords=openshift)

* [SAP Cloud Platform: Tools and Services. SAP Press, 2019](https://www.amazon.de/SAP-Cloud-Platform-Services-englisch/dp/1493216961/ref=sr_1_fkmr2_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1549651734&sr=8-2-fkmr2&keywords=platform+asa+service)
  Yet to be published.


## Analyst Reports

* [Forrester: The total economic impact of Microsoft PaaS](https://azure.microsoft.com/mediahandler/files/resourcefiles/0c9d178c-b7e7-4b78-bb46-c7bee92677a8/WhitePaper_The_Total_Economic_Impact_Of_Microsoft_Azure_PaaS_Forrester.pdf):
  A Microsoft commissioned study from 2016 to examine the potential return on investment (ROI) enterprises may 
  realize by shifting their application development and deployment to Azure platform-as-a-service (PaaS).
  
* [Forrester: The total economic impact of Pivotal Cloud Foundry](https://content.pivotal.io/analyst-reports/the-total-economic-impact-of-pivotal-cloud-foundry):
  Cost savings and business benefits enabled by Pivotal Cloud Foundry. A Pivotal commissioned study from 2017.

* [Gartner: Cloud strategy leadership](http://www.gartner.com/imagesrv/books/cloud/cloud_strategy_leadership.pdf): Gartner
  insights on how and why leaders must implement cloud computing. 

* [Gartner: The key trends in PaaS, 2018](https://www.gartner.com/doc/3852281/key-trends-paas-)
  
* [IDC: PaaS: Emerging trends and strategies](https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=IDC_P37233)


## News and Blog Posts (latest first)

* [Reza Shafii: Kubernetes guideposts for 2019. OpenShift Blog, Jan 2019](https://blog.openshift.com/kubernetes-guideposts-for-2019/)
  Reza predicts automated operations will be the next step, federation V2 will make multi-cloud easier, serverless comes
  to Kubernetes and 2019 will be the year of hybrid serverless, k8s will enable hybrid operations for containers and
  virtual machines and it'll be on bare metal, open source developer communities target k8s by default, we will see
  workloads start moving back to the datacenter.

* [Dan Meyer: Cloud Foundry Adopts a Pair of Kubernetes-Based Projects. SDXCentral, Oct. 2018,](https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/cloud-foundry-adopts-a-pair-of-kubernetes-based-projects/2018/10/):
  Cloud Foundry Container Runtime (CFCR), which allows for deploying containers using Bosh and Kubernetes.
  Eirini, which allows operators and vendors to use Kubernetes as the underlying container scheduler for the Cloud 
  Foundry Application Runtime. CF Containerization, which packages Bosh into containers that are deployed into 
  Kubernetes. This allows operators to deploy the Cloud Foundry Application Runtime into existing clusters.
  CFCR was the beachhead for Cloud Foundry into the Kubernetes ecosystem. Eirini and CF Containerization build on 
  that approach.
  
* [Jeff Hobbs: Kubernetes and Cloud Foundry: Better together. The New Stack. Apr. 2018](https://thenewstack.io/kubernetes-and-cloud-foundry-better-together/)
  
* [Peter Eriksson: The key trends in PaaS 2018. Feb. 2018](https://petereriksson.ch/the-key-trends-in-paas-2018/)
  
* [Kurt Marko: Building the convincing PaaS business case. Diginomica, Jan 2018](https://diginomica.com/paas-business-case-higher-level-cloud-services-delivers-roi-competitive-advantage/)


## Misc

* [Richard Watson: I don't always evaluate PaaS with a list of criteria, but when I do, it's this list](https://blogs.gartner.com/richard-watson/dont-always-evaluate-paas-list-criteria-list/):
  A meme themed article on Gartner Blog Nework from 2015.

* [Cloud Foundry Container Runtime (CFCR)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/kubo-release): An open-source 
  project that provides a solution for deploying and managing Kubernetes clusters using BOSH on AWS, GCP, OpenStack 
  and vSphere. Formerly named Kubo.
  
* [Cloud Foundry Stratos](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/stratos): A Web-based Console UI for Cloud Foundry.

* [Secrets of successful Cloud Foundry Users](https://content.pivotal.io/infographics/secrets-of-successful-cloud-foundry-users): An infographic.
